CYS 4151 - ETHICAL HACKING
Network and Application Security Assessment




Red Team Report
From Reconnaissance to Confirmed Compromise




   FIELD                            DETAILS


                                    Metasploitable2
   Target system 1
                                    192.168.50.40

                                    VulnBank - Web Application
   Target system 2
                                    192.168.50.20

                                    Djemtchimo Noukui Bruno Jonatan
   Red Team Operators
                                    Kwete Ngnouba Junior Rayan

                                    PC4 - Kali Linux
   Workstation
                                    192.168.50.100

   Course                           CYS 4151 - Ethical Hacking

   Semester                         Summer 2026




REPORT OVERVIEW


This report narrates, step by step, the strategy we used to assess two hosts on the authorized lab
network 192.168.50.0/24. We were already connected to the network before this engagement began, so
no network-entry step was required - our work started directly at reconnaissance. Each section explains
what we did, why we did it, what the result told us, and how it shaped our next move.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                           Page 1
CYS 4151 - ETHICAL HACKING                                  RED TEAM REPORT




Table of Contents
                                                                      PAGE



1. Mapping the Network                                                    3



2. Narrowing the Attack Surface                                           4



    Making sure we weren't missing anything on .20                        5


    Confirming the weak points on .40                                     6


3. Breaking In: Exploiting the FTP Service                                7



4. Proving the Impact: Taking Real Action with Our Access                 9



5. Turning to the Web Application                                        11



    Testing for SQL injection                                            11


    Finding the real weakness - a brute-force attack                     11


6. Conclusion                                                            15




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                            Page 2
 1. Mapping the Network
 Before attacking anything, we needed to know what was actually alive on the network. Attacking blindly
 wastes time and risks missing the real targets, so our first move was a simple host discovery sweep
 across the whole subnet, without touching any ports yet:

     nmap -sn 192.168.50.0/24

 This kept our activity quiet at the start and gave us a clean list of every machine online - 8 hosts in
 total, including our own attacking machine. This single step mattered a lot: it meant every decision we
 made afterward was based on confirmed, live hosts, not guesswork.




              Figure 1.1 - Host discovery sweep (nmap -sn) across 192.168.50.0/24, confirming 8 live hosts.


 Once we knew who was on the network, we went a level deeper and identified what each host was
 actually running:

     nmap -A 192.168.50.1   -oN scan_pfsense.txt
     nmap -A 192.168.50.10 -oN scan_workstation.txt
     nmap -A 192.168.50.20 -oN scan_server.txt
     nmap -A 192.168.50.30 -oN scan_dvwa.txt
     nmap -A 192.168.50.40 -oN scan_metasploitable.txt
     nmap -A 192.168.50.200 -oN scan_suricata.txt
     nmap -A 192.168.50.250 -oN scan_openvas.txt

 This step told us the operating systems, open ports, and running services on each host. Two results
 stood out immediately and shaped everything we did next:

      - 192.168.50.20 was running a web application called VulnBank, reachable on both port 80 and port
      3000.
 -    192.168.50.40 was running a huge number of services at once - FTP (File Transfer Protocol, used to
      transfer files), SSH, Telnet, SMB (Server Message Block, used to share files and printers), old web
      servers, databases - a broad attack surface that warranted further security testing.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                    Page 3
           Figure 1.2 - Service identification pass on 192.168.50.20, revealing VulnBank on ports 80 and 3000.




         Figure 1.3 - Service identification pass confirming the wide, outdated service footprint on 192.168.50.40.


 We used this moment to settle, with evidence, which hosts were worth our time. .20 became our
 web-application target, and .40 became our main exploitation target, because an old host with that
 many open doors is usually the fastest path to real access.


 2. Narrowing the Attack Surface
 Knowing a host has open ports isn't the same as knowing it's actually weak. So before attacking, we
 dug deeper into our two chosen targets to turn "looks interesting" into "confirmed weakness."




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                            Page 4
 Making sure we weren't missing anything on .20
  nmap -sV -sC -p- 192.168.50.20 192.168.50.40 -oN full_scan.txt

 We scanned every single port on both machines, not just the common ones. On .20 nothing new turned
 up - the same three ports as before. That told us we already had the complete picture of this host, and
 we could move forward with confidence instead of worrying we'd missed something.




                            Figure 2.1 - Full 65535-port scan against .20 and .40 in progress.




        Figure 2.2 - Full-range scan results: .20 confirmed to the same three ports; .40 shows its wide service list.


 On .40, this deeper scan revealed a few more services hiding outside the usual range, including one
 called distccd, a service known to allow attackers to run commands remotely if left exposed - giving
 us a backup option in case our main plan didn't work.



CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                              Page 5
 Confirming the weak points on .40
  nmap --script=smb-enum-shares -p445 192.168.50.40
  nmap --script=ftp-anon -p21 192.168.50.40

 Rather than guessing, we ran scripts built specifically to test two suspicions we already had from the
 earlier scan: that file sharing (SMB) might be open to anyone, and that the FTP service might allow
 anonymous logins.




            Figure 2.3 - SMB share enumeration against .40, listing every exposed share and its access level.




  Figure 2.4 - The 'tmp' share confirmed with anonymous READ/WRITE access, plus anonymous FTP login confirmed.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                      Page 6
       FINDING - Anonymous Write Access & Open FTP

       A shared folder named tmp, with the comment literally reading "oh noes!", allowed anyone
       - no login required - to read and write files on the machine. The FTP service separately
       confirmed it accepted anonymous connections. These two results gave us real,
       demonstrated proof - not just a guess - that this machine was genuinely vulnerable, and
       told us exactly where to focus our actual attack.




 3. Breaking In: Exploiting the FTP Service
 With solid evidence in hand, we moved to actually exploiting the weakness we found. We chose the
 FTP service on .40 because its exact version is known to have a backdoor hidden inside it - meaning
 a specific exploit already existed and didn't need us to build anything custom.

  msfconsole
  search type:exploit vsftpd

 This search returned exactly one matching tool, built specifically for this exact version of the FTP
 software. Having only one clear match told us we were on the right track.




          Figure 3.1 - Metasploit module search returning a single, purpose-built match: vsftpd_234_backdoor.

  use exploit/unix/ftp/vsftpd_234_backdoor
  set RHOSTS 192.168.50.40
  set PAYLOAD cmd/unix/interact
  show options

 Before firing anything, we checked our settings one more time to make sure we were targeting the right
 machine on the right port. This is a habit worth keeping - a wrong IP or port at this stage could waste
 the whole attempt.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                      Page 7
              Figure 3.2 - Exploit module configured: target, port, and payload confirmed before execution.

  run

 Our first attempt didn't produce anything - the connection looked normal, but no access came through.
 This kind of backdoor is known to be unreliable on a first trigger, so we simply tried again. This time it
 worked. The tool reported we were connected as root - the highest level of access possible on a
 Linux machine - and opened a live command session on the target.




  Figure 3.3 - First attempt completes with no session; second attempt succeeds, returning a root-level command shell.


 We confirmed this ourselves, directly inside the session:

  whoami → root
  id → uid=0(root) gid=0(root)
  hostname → metasploitable



CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                         Page 8
           Figure 3.4 - Identity verification run inside the live shell, confirming root access on the correct host.



       RESULT - Full Root Compromise of 192.168.50.40

       All three results matched exactly what we expected - we were in, with full control, on the
       correct machine. This was the turning point of the engagement: everything before this was
       preparation, and this was the moment that preparation paid off.




 4. Proving the Impact: Taking Real Action with Our
 Access
 Getting a shell is one thing - showing what that access actually lets an attacker do is what makes the
 finding matter. So from inside our root session, we took a real, deliberate action: we changed the
 password of an existing user account on the machine.

  echo "msfadmin:YouGotH@cked1234." | chpasswd
  grep msfadmin /etc/shadow

 The account's stored password hash had changed, confirming the command worked. But a changed
 file isn't full proof by itself - so we tested it the way it really matters: by logging in with the new
 password, from a separate terminal, as if we were any ordinary user trying to get in:

  ssh msfadmin@192.168.50.40




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                             Page 9
       Figure 4.1 - msfadmin's password changed from the root shell and the new hash confirmed in /etc/shadow.




      Figure 4.2 - Independent SSH login as msfadmin using the newly set password, proving the account takeover.


 The login succeeded. We were now sitting inside a second, independent session on the machine -
 proof that our access wasn't just theoretical, it let us take over a real user account and use it normally.
 This step mattered because it moved us from "we broke in" to "we demonstrated what breaking in
 actually lets someone do" - account takeover, not just a one-time shell.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                         Page 10
 5. Turning to the Web Application
 With the server-side machine handled, we shifted focus entirely to VulnBank, treating it as its own
 separate target rather than assuming our earlier access gave us anything there - a real attacker
 usually looks for more than one way in, and we wanted to show the same.

 Before carrying out this part of the test, we had already registered an ordinary demo account on
 VulnBank through the application's own sign-up page, as part of preparing the environment. This
 account hosted the simulated banking funds used later in the test.

 Testing for SQL injection
 We tried a classic technique on the login form, entering a crafted username designed to trick the
 system into logging us in without a real password:

  Username: ' OR '1'='1




           Figure 5.1 - SQL injection attempt against VulnBank's login form, rejected with 'Invalid credentials'.


 The application rejected it, showing "Invalid credentials." This was a genuine result worth recording - it
 meant the login system wasn't vulnerable to this particular trick, likely because the way it talks to its
 database is built more safely than older, simpler web apps.

 Finding the real weakness - a brute-force attack
 We guessed admin as the username because it is a common default administrator username.
 Using Hydra, we then tried passwords for this guessed username against the login endpoint:

  hydra -l admin -P /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt 192.168.50.20 http-post-form \
  "/api/login:username=^USER^&password=^PASS^:F=Invalid"




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                          Page 11
 Figure 5.2 - Hydra's brute-force attack against the admin login, recovering a valid admin/admin credential pair. The tool
        also flagged that the endpoint responds with HTTP Basic Authentication rather than a standard web form.


 Hydra recovered a working credential pair almost immediately: admin / admin. A default administrator
 account with no real password behind it is exactly the kind of weak-credential issue a brute-force attack
 is built to catch, and it confirmed this system had one. Hydra also flagged that the underlying endpoint
 responds with HTTP Basic Authentication rather than a plain web form, a detail worth noting since it
 means the visible login form and the API's actual authentication mechanism don't fully match. We used
 the recovered credentials to log in directly, which succeeded and gave us full administrator access.

 From there we explored what that access actually allowed:

     - A full dashboard showing account balances and activity
     - An admin panel listing every registered customer, including their passwords stored and shown
     in plain text
     - A working money transfer feature, which we used to move real simulated funds




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                           Page 12
    Figure 5.3 - Admin panel, reached with the brute-forced admin/admin credentials, exposing full customer records
                                          including plaintext demo passwords.


 With administrator access now compromised, the natural next step was to demonstrate what an
 attacker could actually do with that level of control: move money. We used the admin session's transfer
 function to send simulated funds into the demo account we had set up beforehand, confirming the
 platform allows an administrator to initiate payments without further verification.




  Figure 5.4 - Transfer Money feature, used to initiate a live simulated fund transfer from the compromised administrator
                                                            session.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                           Page 13
    Figure 5.5 - Transfer confirmed: 5,000 FCFA sent via simulated Orange Money, reference VB-ORANGE-000002,
                                                   balance updated.



       RESULT - Full Administrative Compromise of VulnBank

       This was a much stronger demonstration of impact than the SQL injection attempt - a
       weak, brute-forceable default credential gave us complete control of the application, access
       to every user's password, and the ability to move money.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                Page 14
 6. Conclusion
 Looking back at the whole sequence, each step built directly on the one before it:

      1       Mapped the network so we knew exactly what existed before touching anything.

 6. Conclusion
    2  Dug deeper into our two chosen targets to turn suspicion into solid, confirmed
           evidence.
 Looking back at the whole sequence, each step built directly on the one before it:
      3       Exploited a real, known weakness on the server, using evidence we had already
      1       Mapped the network so we knew exactly what existed before touching anything.
              gathered ourselves.
      2       Dug deeper into our two chosen targets to turn suspicion into solid, confirmed
      4       Proved the access mattered by taking a real action - seizing control of a user
              evidence.
              account - not just logging in and stopping.
      3       Exploited a real, known weakness on the server, using evidence we had already
      5       Shifted to the web application and found its real weakness wasn't fancy injection
              gathered ourselves.
              tricks, but a simple, well-known mistake: a default password nobody had changed.
      4       Proved the access mattered by taking a real action - seizing control of a user
      6       Proved it with a working exploit logging in with the recovered credentials and using
              account - not just logging in and stopping.
              that access to view customer data and move real simulated funds.
      5       Shifted to the web application and found its real weakness wasn't fancy injection
 The confirmed
       engagement   FTP
              tricks,    confirmed
                       but  backdoor       permits
                                          root
                            a simple, well-known    system
                                                access    on takeover,
                                                       mistake:  a defaultdata
                                                               Metasploitable2   theft
                                                                             password   and
                                                                                     through  service
                                                                                         nobodythehad disruption.
                                                                                                    FTP    backdoor
                                                                                                      changed.     Default
                                                                                                                       and
                  credentials
 administrator access              expose through
                             to VulnBank        VulnBank     to unauthorized
                                                        default                     access modification
                                                                  credentials. Account        and fraudulent    transfers.
                                                                                                           and simulated
 Anonymous
 transfers
      6          SMB read/write
           demonstrated
              Proved     it with         accessAdditional
                                thea impact.
                                      working     risks file
                                                  exploit     theft in
                                                            findings
                                                           logging   orincluded
                                                                         tampering;
                                                                        with            anonymous
                                                                              the anonymous
                                                                                  recovered      SMB FTP
                                                                                               credentials  exposes
                                                                                                      read/write
                                                                                                           and     access,
                                                                                                               using   files
 available without
 anonymous      FTP     authentication.
                      login,   exposed        Exposed
                                            distccd,    distccd
                                                     unencrypted   may
                                                                     HTTP allow
                                                                             access,
              that access to view customer data and move real simulated funds.    remoteand command
                                                                                             reported   execution.  HTTP
                                                                                                      plaintext-password
 exposes credentials
 exposure   in VulnBank.   andSMB sessions     to interception,
                                      file access                 were reported
                                                    and distccd while                plaintext-password
                                                                         not exploited;                    exposure
                                                                                          their potential impact      risks
                                                                                                                  requires
          takeover, including other accounts that reuse the same password.
 accountvalidation.
 further
 The engagement confirmed root-level compromise of Metasploitable2 and administrator access to
 Replace affected software, remove default credentials, restrict anonymous access, enforce HTTPS and
 secure password handling, then retest.




CYS 4151 Ethical Hacking - Red Team Report                                                                           Page 15
